You
Hello Daniel, I don't know I think you're first I don't see anybody else
Zardoz you would be second. I don't see anyone else who's first
Maybe it's a tie
But from my side it looks like Daniel made it in so Daniel's gonna win the the cash award
You got to send in your email and mailing address in the cash will come in the mail Daniel. Congratulations
I'm afraid that the latest data tells us that we're feeling with essentially a worst case scenario
I'm afraid that the latest data tells us that we're dealing with essentially a worst case
And I have no idea how to say that but I do think that means something like howdy in
Irish or something or Welsh
I mean, I apologize. I don't know what it says, but I am assuming it means something like let's go get him or
Maybe good afternoon. I don't know anyway. I'm appreciating everyone who's here. Welcome to the show. I
Think truth is good for kids. We're so busy lying. We don't even recognize the truth no more than society
We want everybody to feel good. That's not that's not the way life is
This episode is sponsored by Mointe that's move plus point
This my point is that if if we were able to just like we're trying to get everybody to take the vaccine
If we had put that into getting everybody to take I've imagined in fluvoxamine for for a month
If we and if we could accomplish that then COVID would be wiped out we could do it and actually
You can tell if someone's lying, you know, you can sort of feel it in people
And I have lied. I'm sure I'll lie again. I don't want to lie, you know, and I don't think I'm a liar
I try not to be a liar. I don't want to be a liar. I think it's like really important not to be a liar
You
This is so crazy
Well, here we are again, I'm finally putting in putting in some time I
Apologize for the absence this week and it's a complicated situation at home right now trying to make ends meet and
It is not without
Where we're all very grateful for the people that are supporting the stream is sharing our work, but
The reality of it is that I also have to do other things that I do have to scramble around for other money
And I'm lucky enough actually
I'm lucky enough actually and make you make sure you hear that
I'm lucky enough to have other ways
and and another source of income in the form of consulting work and that comes and goes and
Lucky enough this week it a little bit more showed up at the door today, and so I could
This week and so I could make a little extra money on the side and maybe
April's
Rent is almost paid, but don't get me wrong. I still have so much so much gratitude for all the people on this list
and
You know my family and I are just yeah, we'll be eternally grateful for all of these people
I mean people like Greg James and Christian Ormond and
Jane Martin and
You know Jeff from earth
Steph and Cone these are people that have been coming through for years now often on sometimes
Consistently for years sometimes here and there with huge donations
And what do I consider a huge donation? I'm sorry, but anybody that gives more than a hundred dollars to anybody on the internet
has
grossly exceeded the amount of money that I've donated to people over time and I've been the
Humble recipient of a lot of support of that kind of
input and so
When you get more than that then it's really pretty shocking and the independent bright web is not hasn't become glamorous yet
And I don't even know if there are any other members of the
About you know
This illusion is sustained only through your active participation
So I think what I need to realize and we all need to realize we all got to do our part
and maybe my part is this maybe my part is being here and
You know for whatever little bit of this is this is one more fire burning in the distance that other people can see
And so again, I'm just really grateful for having me
The circumstances where I can do it
So you've gotten a long way since we made this logo lots of long ways since I thought wow
Patch clampers need a clothing line
We'll call it gig ome biological
And then it turned out to be a symbol that I would use for a stream where I was trying to teach biology on the internet because biology isn't available on tv
Because biology isn't available on youtube
And one of the safest ways to get biology in your head nowadays is actually gig ome biological
It's actually pretty crazy
and
It's the 12th of april 2020 for and I am still
grinding I really thought that
Somewhere in 2021 one of my streams would have a breakthrough it'd go viral
and then this you know this conscious and intelligent manipulation of our
Habits and opinions would become obvious to everyone and that the way that we were fooled by
Being sent to home and told to watch television and read facebook
We were fooled into trying to solve this mystery
And in solving that mystery, of course, we completely
Fumbled the ball uninformed consent for ourselves for our children for the kids that went off to
To college in 2020 in 2021
We just didn't protect each other in our families and and it was because of this incredible
incredible
agreement
that that this this curve here early in in
Early in march represented something
Like a novel virus that that all these people that were dying in new york city could be extrapolated across the united states
And we can expect that to happen everywhere. I hope we can see my arrow
um
And so it's uh, it's a real
It's a real important thing to keep in mind but our hypothesis is which is that a who declared a pandemic of a
Dangerous novel virus that was detectable by a nonspecific PCR test for RNA viruses applied to a low prevalence population
So that means a high percentage of false positives
With and correlated with poor and detrimental health protocols through financial incentives to follow orders from above
And of course this had a lot to do with okay. Is there a deadly virus or not? They told us there is so we better protect ourselves
Um, does pulse ox matter for this apparently it does so when we measure it and we find it low
Maybe we should give them oxygen. Maybe we should try to stop spread by ventilating people these kinds of ideas
Were what were financially incentivized early on and maybe only in a few places where they
completely taken to the full extent and and
Hundreds or thousands of people were killed by these protocols in a very short period of time
But that short period of time which occurred primarily in new york city and a few other places
Was sufficient for organizations like sage and and bureaucracies like the cdc
And the nih to claim that this was evidence of appending appending doom
And so this at the same time because of these
Haysp nonspecific PCR test allowed a conversion of a larger percentage of all cause mortality than just
pneumonia and influenza to be prioritized as a national security threat because pneumonia and influenza is this blue
Thing down here
And so in order to get this to explode what they essentially had to do was get us to treat
Pea and I treat what we would have normally called pneumonia and influenza without even really caring about how it was detected
They they tricked doctors around the united states and around the world to treat
What was already a well treatable source of all cause mortality completely differently
And by changing the way that we we treated these people let me throw some let me throw some some lines up here
The way that we changed by treating these people this way was which we ended up increasing all cause mortality
And that's why you see here in this graph that the light blue region which represents mortality to
pneumonia skyrocketed during the pandemic because we started treating pneumonia incorrectly
On the advice of the cdc the nih and each other organizations
It is possible that an niaid funded infectious clone of a coronavirus may or may not have involved in the initial biological incidents
But in RNA molecule cannot sustain a pandemic
The goal is a total surrender of individual sovereignty and enforcement of a global inversion
From basic human rights to basic granted permissions
I don't think this is a very big deal anymore to say this in the in a general context
But I do think it's a very big deal to say it in the context of the pandemic
And we are saying that they want to invert
Our sovereignty to permissions and they are used they have orchestrated the pandemic to do it
Is is about the best way to say it now mRNAs involved and genetic testing is involved
And that's all what this inversion of from sovereignty to permissions is about because if you don't have sovereignty over your body then the data
Is it yours either?
Your genetic sequence is in yours your medical data is in yours, especially if the state is providing your health care
How can it possibly be yours?
And in fact, that's one of the disadvantages of the american system is that a lot of these databases are privatized
And so unlike china and unlike some of these more socialized
Places like israel or sweden or norway or or or the uk
We don't have this possibility of
Nefariously or or behind the scenes
a massing a database that could be used eventually to
achieve or or attempt to achieve some of these transgenic goals we've been talking about
And so america was behind the ball at the start of the pandemic and the pandemic was going to be
I think america's way of catching up to some of these systems that they have
Led themselves to believe are very much ahead of us because of their ability to collect data and amass a database
Of useful data for an ai to eventually start to understand how the human genome really works
And so if you start to be able to see the very big picture of course
understanding how the human genome works and how
whatever human biology is in the end how to penetrate that
irreducible complexity to get rid of the sacred aspects of biology has been a goal since the late 50s
probably much earlier
Once it was understood that
that
Biology as it existed was essentially an appreciation for the sacred
And it had admiration for what we can't understand and for what little parts of it
We can't understand it needed to be inverted and so for many decades
Biology went from being what I think was a more appreciation of the natural world to a sort of
An abomination of it or or or a
Desecration of it was the right word I was looking for
And so they they've essentially convinced biologists like me when I was still in academia
Not to think about our work as having any sacred aspects of it even though I understood that
like animal ethics and and and and
Experimental ethics had something to do with the sacredness of the animal subjects that we were using
It never really got to me the way it gets to me now in retrospect being outside of the system and outside of that field
And so for me like many other people it has to be an awakening that takes many years
And so it took me a long time to see that I was involved in this scooby-doo that I didn't get it for a very long time
I didn't have this hypothesis
All of it as as sorted as it is now at some point in may or or june or july of 2020. I was pretty close
but the idea that that that there would be uh
a way a molecular explanation
For all of rna virology basically being an exaggeration
That part of it was lost on me in 2020 and in fact it was lost on me because of the
what I see now as a pretty amazing
No virus position which was so boldly presented and
Somehow curated in a way that it made it very unattractive to people like me who were trying to
question what we thought we knew but
Still cling to something that we thought we did
and so in a way
um
They played different roles at different times and I don't know who's doing what I just know for sure that there was a many
There were many times in my own involvement of this
Evolution of this hypothesis where I felt like there was about to be a unity moment where everybody was going to realize
Oh my gosh. They lied to us
And every time we got to the point where I thought there was going to be this thing where people got together and said
You know what we disagree about some of this biology
But the bottom line is we agree that those people lied to us
And then it didn't happen
and then for some reason or another personal attacks got in the way or
Or somebody didn't show up or somebody wrote a sub stack
They shouldn't have or somebody backed out because the the rules of engagement were in agreement upon after several email exchanges
And these dramas I think were all orchestrated
I think a lot of these dramas were performed by both sides of a drama
To make the people that were that thought that they were participating in that drama
Feel like something happened when in reality they had nothing to do with what happened
These people had already agreed to be opponents in this limited spectrum of debate
And to include you and make you feel like you were participating in it
But in reality, they already knew where it was going to go and where it was going to land
And that's why several times during the course of the pandemic. I felt like I was making progress with people
But then it suddenly they decided that I was a absolute nutcase
I would go from having the respect of someone to being called crazy and it's happened several times in the last four years
All the while slowly but surely moving toward this conclusion that so much can be explained by lying
That it's it's unnecessary for there to be a spreading novel gain a function pathogen
And then it just happens to be the Denny Rancor and several other people have I've not really been able to identify the signal of such
It's absolutely impossible that the pandemic was just a biological phenomenon that governments around the world were responding to it's absolutely impossible
Even if the theater was so convincing for so many years that we actually fell for it
Ladies and gentlemen, this is Giga on biological high-resistance low-noise information brief brought to you by a biologist that should say
Oh, yeah, it does say the 12th
April 2024. I am a human just like you. I have a mama and a papa and
Yeah, biology is the way out. So don't think that we've escaped. It's just started
Today
Today on Giga on biological we're going to look at a video. Did I change it?
I don't think I changed it. I'm gonna have to change it right now. Sorry about that
I mean, it's gonna say american frontline doctors 2020. We're gonna save that for later
um, we're actually going to do a
Donald Trump
Uh second of march 2020 is what we're gonna do
and so that
Means that when we do this and I hit resume slideshow
It's gonna play the music again, which I think is from tic-tac-dope
And that should have had a
I don't know why that didn't flies that there right now already and then donald will come in
Okay, so I screwed up the animation when I edited that I apologize. I'm not very good at editing my slides on the fly
Anyway, Donald Trump second of our march 2020
Um without further ado here we go. I think this is going to be a really fun video
Remember what we're watching here is history and if we roll down we will actually see
That there are 18 subscribers to this channel only 5,000 people have seen it
He loaded it up
Four years ago and the only well the most recent common is mine. Inovio is Malone. Hi, he's so deep state
I don't know why I wrote that anyway
Um, here we go. This is called Inovio CEO Dr. Kim discusses coronavirus vaccine with president trump and vice president
10 second of march 2020
It's actually a 56 minute long video. So I I suspect we're gonna hear a lot of cool stuff
Um, I might put it slightly faster although
It's two o'clock. I've got enough time. Hopefully I won't interrupt too much
Biotechnology companies the biggest in the world
Most prestigious the ones that get down to
The bottom line very quickly to discuss how the federal government can accelerate the development of vaccines and therapeutic treatments
For the coronavirus. We want to welcome
Dr. Deborah Burke
And dr. Burke has been
To the White House a lot over her career and she's now going to be here working with Mike Pence and everybody
Full-time and we appreciate it. We appreciate it very much Dr. Brooks
and
A real expert in her field and if you'd like you could
Ask her a couple of questions when we're finished. We work to
We're working very hard to expedite the longer process of developing a vaccine
We're also moving with maximum speed to develop
Therapies so that we can help people we cover as quickly as possible. We have a lot of recovery going on
We want to see if we can advance that
It's likely that therapies will be available before a vaccine is actually ready and we'll
Seek to bring all effective treatments to mark and as soon as possible some very good work has been done on the vaccine
However, they have some good progress and you'll be able to ask a couple of questions of the folks here
We're also working with congress to ensure that america has what it needs to respond to this challenge
Great challenge, but everybody's responding very well
Since the start of the outbreak my administration has taken the most aggressive action in history to protect our citizens and losing
Including closing our borders very early a lot earlier than people wanted us to do
And that turned out to be a good decision. I ordered
Sweeping travel restrictions increased travel advisory levels established screening measures and opposed historic
Quarantines
Quarantines all over the country a lot of
The corona virus shows the importance of bringing manufacturing back to america
So that we are producing at home the medicines and equipment and everything else that we need to protect the public's health
And i've been talking about this for a long time that process has already started it started
Long before we ever knew about this
So that's pretty funny because I know that a lot of the supplies of
PCR testing at least around the world in different places came from china
lateral flow tests from china pcr
reactions from china
I've been looking into one particular testing company on the west coast that used a company known as
BGI
And I think actually jikki is done jikki leaks
The mouse guy on twitter has done a lot of work on bgi and how their tests were terrible
And how many tests they distributed and if you look that company up, I think it's Beijing genetic something something
Um, they are partners of the human genome project already from a couple decades ago
So I think we're going to find as we move forward
All we got to do is just keep track of what we find and keep
Putting things on the bulletin board and eventually all this stuff will keep
I mean, it's all still lining up, right? If I tell you that one of the biggest distributors of
EUA tests in
In the united states was a chinese company that was partnered with the human genome project already in
Then that's when you look at the timeline and things line up like wow, that's weird
And so just just realize that's what we're really working with here
That's what's going to continue to happen as we look back if we are vigilant and we are
We do the work
Um, and that's what it's going to be is just doing this work
Um, we are going to find it. We are going to see it
It's going to become more and more obvious because again
Unless they start erasing this kind of history
It's still available right now and it it becomes a starker and starker contrast to what we know now
As we move forward and as long as we don't let it get out of
Get away from us. We can still bring other people to still see it
Right if we're
We have a lot of work to do between now and the election and whatever is going to stir up in everybody's head
When that happens because that's going to be one of these
You know high density information times that that makes it seem like a lot more time has passed
And if you have one of those scenarios again, what ends up happening is is that 2020
Cognitively feels like a longer time ago
It becomes more and more work to get back to it
And even if we have this kind of internet assistance
It's still going to be a lot of cognitive work for people to roll back there
They're thinking all the way this far. That's the whole
Awfulness of social media
So we've got a lot of work to do right now while we still everybody's attention
And people are still trying to figure out still walking around a little bit days
We have we have the chance right now. So I think this is a really
great video great great place to start
Make certain things at home
We want to be doing our manufacturing at home
That's not only done in giant it's done in many other places including Ireland and
A lot of places make our different
drugs and things that we need so badly and it's not good to be
Dealing with one or two or three countries and we do very little at home
And we're going to start doing it at home and we've been talking about that for a long time
And a lot of the drug companies because of what we've done in terms of incentives and taxes
They're heading back here anyway
The coronavirus shows the importance of bringing all of that manufacturing back to america and we will have that
Started it's already started frankly. It started about a year ago
The white house coronavirus task force led by vice president Mike Pence has been meeting daily and coordinating closely with the state
And local governments Mike had a call today with 53 governors
And I heard it was a very good call and everybody's very well coordinated
And the governors and the states all of them. I can't think of an exception
They've been really working closely with us. It's been it's been a very good very good relationship
We will confront this challenge together and we will continue to do exactly what we're doing
And we're going to be very successful
A lot of things are happening a lot of very exciting things are happening and they're happening very rapidly
So with that, I'd like to introduce
Mike and you can say a little bit as to your calls and some of the things that are happening today
Well, thank you, mr. President and
the
White house corona task force. We'll be meeting again this afternoon
But as you mentioned earlier today your direction we host I think we should assume that
Mike pence's loyalty is not to donald trump in this scenario. I don't have any
Idea whether donald trump is totally in or not
My assumption is that he would like to be in my assumption is that he has the same desire that his dad did to be included in this
Higher society that was in new york city at that time, which is really what we're talking about here still
We're talking about the governing elite. I think donald trump would like to be a member of it
Is he already a member or not?
That's the real only question
That anyone should really be asking if they're trying to penetrate this illusion
And I don't think that in this scenario at this time even if donald trump isn't at this time still kind of outside of
out of their control
Mike pence is not
And so putting mike pence in charge of the response to the pandemic is actually
Quite alarming and it was quite alarming to me already in
2020, but it wasn't really clear to me why but this this is why because I don't think this guy
um
I mean you want to believe it right that he's a
He
Reminds us that he is a christian whenever he can and I want to believe it with all of my heart
um
But you know you you have to go by people's actions and so um he's been in too long
That's really what I think he's been in too long
so
Anyway and telephone conference call with 53 governors
As the president said many times we're all in this together and today's meeting
Is a reflection of back that this president understands that industry is a part of the one team in america that's going to
address the coronavirus in this country
I'm grateful for these leaders of the nation's top pharmaceutical companies come in to speak to us about
the development of vaccines
but also the development of therapeutic
medications that
Can be available in the short term and we're grateful for your participation
The president will also be traveling tomorrow to the national institute of health
cdc before the week is out
And we will be meeting with leaders of the airline industry will be meeting with with leaders of
the cruise line industry
And we welcome the partnership
With industry in this country as very is same mark work out the president's top priority mark is the guy who gave me this
Video to watch so thanks mark
And let me also mr. President
extend my welcome to dr. Deborah barris
one of the
One of the leading experts in infectious diseases in the world
She has served in the uniform of the united states. She has served in multiple administrations and
She's going to be our right arm here as we implement
your vision for
Putting the health and safety and well the of the american people first
So with that mr. President, I know secretary
I do think that bergs is worth considering as one of the major players at least at this time
um, she was given an extraordinary amount of power and I do think that she is a ladder climber and
Someone that one way or another. I don't know if her history includes places where she's been pinched before
Or places where fraud was uncovered or anything like that
But I do know that he she moved up the ranks basically working on hib
Which should be not by now for anybody watching this show an extreme red flag
In terms of people moving up the bureaucracy of the united states government
um and in this case, this is definitely one of the acolytes of all the
of all the
About she himself. So, um, it's a really cool thing to see that in march of 2020. We are still pretending
Um, like she's just being added to the team. They've selected her. Donald trump is about to say her name incorrectly
It's really kind of fun.
These are has a few thoughts and
Alex, maybe you can give a little update and then we'll go around the room and people can introduce themselves if that's okay
Thank you, mr. President, mr. Vice president
So, uh, we continue to see cases here in the united states. Uh, as you know, we tragically have experienced uh, several more deaths
Reporting today. I think this is the guy who declares the health emergency, right? This is the hhs secretary
So this is the dude who actually pulls the fire alarm that puts the prep act in action
Allows euase to be granted and tells everybody it's time to go
day
Uh, and our condolences go out to their families of course
Um, that's why the president's leading this whole of government response
Let me just go back quick to see if I can see what i was on his thing secretary. He's our
Department of health and human services. Yes, that's correct. I knew it vice president
Uh, so, uh, we continue to see cases here in the united states. Uh, as you know, we tragically have experienced uh, several more deaths
Tragically says, uh, and our condolences go out to their families, of course
Uh, that's why the president's leading this whole of government response at the direction of the vice president
We're here working with the pharmaceutical company leaders on three key issues
How do we speed vaccines? How do we speed therapeutics and one of the supply chain challenges that we may be facing
For pharmaceutical products here in the united states
With regard to with regard to therapeutics and vaccines. We want to know how we can not get in their way, but rather speed
That development process along
I want to make sure that they all know that we've got commissioner han here from the fda
And this is all in the context of emergency powers emergency use authorizations
There we go. The president will be asking you how can we make it faster? How can we make anything faster?
How can we challenge some of those normal pharma timelines
That can be a little slow and bureaucratic
What could we do to speed that along given the nature of this emergency and be a good partner?
with you
And making that happen, especially once we get the emergency supplemental passed by congress in the next week or so
So with that said mr. Thank you very much and supplemental is moving along very rapidly
Everyone what I assume that's money is to get that done moving more quickly
Emma please
Emma warms leave from black so smith going first of all i'd like to
Really say how much we welcome the leadership mr. President of this task force nich and vada
And recognize the very substantial efforts that have already been made by the administration to protect people here in the us
As a science led company with a very large including manufacturing presence here
We know we have a responsibility and a vital role to play
And our priority is to make sure we make available as part of this one team
our pandemic adjuvant technology available to
Any company with a high highly promising vaccine because this new technology could
make
These other vaccines either this new technology could with a high highly available to part of this one team
our pandemic adjuvant technology available to
Any company with a high highly promising vaccine because this new technology could
Make these other vaccines either bring more efficacy or indeed
Allow them to be antigen sparing, which means we could protect more people
Which is obviously incredibly important as we're trying to work a pace and a scale
We've already announced two collaborations and hope to announce more. We're also ready to produce should the us government
Require it a stockpile of this
Adjubins
So that's interesting. Um, what I hear there is a
Reference to this is the Glasgow Smith's Klein lady
Pandemic adjuvant technology more efficacy. I presume would be more antibodies
This would be an antibody thing
Right because that's the that's the nature of the the whole
Model of that that immune correlate and then she says antigen sparing
So here I think she's actually talking about the manufacturer
Of spike protein and spike protein being an antigen that would need an adjuvant technology
And it could also mean the the the manufacturer of mRNA and that you could use
Manufacture less mRNA if you use the pandemic adjuvant technology
It's interesting that they tag on the name here pandemic adjuvant technology because it's not really clear to me
What would differentiate an adjuvant that's not a pandemic adjuvant for example?
I think that's already here a huge
You know level of disingenuousness designed specifically to
Maximize the the illusion of consensus here that may also be an illusion of consensus that is being
Directed at Donald Trump
I mean, I'm not I'm not against that idea. No
Fighting COVID-19 requires a global effort and the US is the vital leader in this
We're absolutely committed to play our part in the talk. Thank you
Thank you very much. Please
Anthony go ahead
I'd like you to share something anyway
I'm Tony Fauci the director of the national astute of allergy and infectious diseases
Very pleased to be on this task force, which I think you're going to see is working extraordinarily smoothly
Under the leadership of the vice president and and secretary asa and as you know, we're involved
And that's the reason why I'm pleased to be with in this room
With you all because we're involved in the fundamental basic and clinical research
To develop countermeasures in the form of therapeutics and vaccines
And I'm sure i'll be working with many of you around the room and I look forward to thank you. Mr. He's so excited
Thank you
Director of cdc. I
Also want to
Thank you all for being here. I want to extend that there's anything cdc can also do as you begin to try to evaluate
Some of your fruits of your labor, you know, we're here to
Make that would we have available help
We're all we're all no fauci
New countermen fauci very very very distinctly hat tipped as our azar and
And pence, which I think makes perfect sense
Mr. Vice President thanks for having me here. Good afternoon. I'm dan medicella
It's very rare that you get such a view of his hair being I mean usually you think it's like a kind of a
It's like a bit of an exaggeration, but in this particular shot with that particular lighting boy
It doesn't there's no exaggeration here at all. It's funny here. It's fun. It's nice
Thank you, mr. President. Mr. Vice President. Thanks for having me here. Good afternoon. I'm dan medicella. CEO of cure back
We're a clinical stage biotech cure back. We use messenger RNA technology
Oppenized messenger RNA molecules once injected into the body
They instruct the cells on how to make proteins for instance
We can use the mRNA technology to trigger an immune response against viruses or we can get the body to increase its production of T cells for cancer vaccines
In this way cure back can make potent
Prophylactic vaccines and cancer treatments the technology also works well to replace missing proteins so we can also work in a rare disease
One strength of our technology is that we can produce prophylactic vaccines using a very low dose
So for instance the phase one rabies trial that we just completed was done at a one microgram dose
So in other words a millionth of a gram dose a very very tiny gross
And so more broadly our company focuses
So this year we have four programs in phase one clinical trials and the coronavirus program will be the fifth program in phase one
We expect that the phase one program or coronavirus will start beginning of June
Our technology platform is fast and it's agile. We were the first messenger RNA company to have GMP manufacturing. We started in 2006
Currently, we have three large-scale GMP facilities
And we were up and running up and running now today
We have a fourth facility built and we're looking for additional capex to put the machinery in there
Once we have that machinery in the fourth building we can make hundreds of millions of doses of the coronavirus vaccine
So we're very excited about that if we want to help there
That is spectacular. I mean
He seems to claim that they were ahead on the man the basic manufacturing stuff ahead of
I
Head of Moderna. I don't know if that's true or not, but it does seem like he's claiming that
Additionally, we have developed a fully automated production
Machine this automated machine is part of the collaboration with sepi and additionally with sepi
We are working on the coronavirus. They have funded our efforts to get the program and the vaccine into phase one
By june. I mean you could see this as being completely nonsense
He already said that that it's an optimized mRNA tech that can produce T cells for cancer
Replace missing proteins
Excuse me, but where can you do that? How can you do that? What give me the example?
This is absolutely par for the course here. We just
I don't think we should be surprised. We're seeing this but what we should be surprised is that we didn't see it
That none of us saw it. I didn't even see it. I didn't get it none none of the academic biologists in america basically said wait
What are you talking about here? This is just transfection. I didn't get it yet in march. I mean I didn't see it
Wasn't until bill gates explained it on pbs news hour that I was like wait what get out of here
Now I hear it. What's going on? I had to have that guy before I could see through it
I
Don't even know if I saw this discussion, but I find it very impressive isn't kirvak the one that that elan musk is involved in
Key point here being that we believe we can develop the vaccine for covid 19 very very quickly and we have a wherewithal to manufacture it
Although we would like some additional help on our largest gmp4 facility
Um, again, we appreciate the opportunity to be here today and uh, thank you very much
John
Again, a vaccine research
Studies in making vaccine for 100 years
And we're for this project. We're working with proprietary
Undercomative protein technology and make the first flu vaccine that's on an x
Um, it's as a potential to define guard
Early work done the star related guard is very common to me
Uh, because we are a major, you know, a flu vaccine producer with this technology
We have the ability to produce a large amount of vaccine
Depending upon the final formulation 100 to 600 million doses per year made in New York
And for we made both of our about 90 percent of our flu product that we can do
Mark says that this is john shiver at the university of pennsylvania. I didn't catch the beginning there
So thanks mark if that's correct
To work with you in this administration
When do you think you could have the vaccine when you think you'd be able to have it stuck reducing it
Now
Some of the other technologies are
We do
And depending upon the nature of how the epidemic goes or does it go
Uh, you know, we would end with the help of the agencies of this country
Uh, you know, perhaps it's a few except where you're difficult to predict your president knowing that a vaccine has to be booked safe in
Because it's given the healthy people
Okay, thank you very much
Thanks, Mr. President for having us
Family and CEO
Regeneron
And we are a monopolyant about if i'm already centered in a company, we are no strangers to collaborate with the administration
We work with
Secretary as our scooters barter and leave him up with a cure for Ebola
And we're very proud of that
Testing that under unbelievable condition
And it didn't create quite as much a site because they could
Hit our shorts, but we can use the exact same technology. We already have we have thousands of antibodies
That are already sitting in fishes with screen them or selecting them
We anticipate of all those well
200,000 doses per month and come out of our factory in New York kind of starting or
And of course we know that this is extra significant to think about this proposal in light of the fact that supreme court was about to change its mind
About the intellectual property rights surrounding
The production of monoclonal antibodies and it had just become exposed on a
On the Yale law school review
Um in a article titled the antibody patent paradox that was then later cited by the supreme court
Um in its decision written by gorsage to
Basically say that a lot of these patents would not hold up and that would they they don't enable the making of an antibody that is
That is pure and because of the nature of how antibodies work
A lot of the descriptions actually fell short of the current understanding of biology
And it was just kind of decided that these things weren't going to hold up to strict scrutiny
If they if they were actually challenged on on pat and law basis and so
proposing monoclonal antibodies
Um is a very interest. It's a very interesting
Side story
To the machinations that were going on behind the scenes because remember somewhere in this crowd
um
There are people from a novio and from other companies that all think it's possible that their
Technology may get a significant part of this pie that is going to be billions of doses
Everybody in this room already knows that there are going to be billions of doses if the coronavirus disappears tomorrow
These people don't care because the motion the wheels that are being said in motion right now
Are going to spend that money anyway those doses are are already in the bag
These cons they're just trying to position themselves for the largest contract and the most attention
That's what you're seeing here and and it's separate from the orchestration of
The appearance of the pandemic and the presence of a novel virus that's separate from this
These people believe it many of these people believe it
They don't they're not sophisticated enough to understand it and in fact
Even if they are sophisticated enough to understand that they understand that their whole livelihood in the industry that they represent
Exists because of that mythology
You need to think about our thing now that means you'd be able to use the vaccine that early
Depends on what uh we see
How we work closely with the fda
Which is what we will do
The fda is what we reached out to us, but we got to work so that process would be faster than jobs
Um, do you explain why that would be
Well, so we make
passive
Vaccine
Our drug will be able to protect you
Whether or not you're infected and protect you from getting infected or if you are infected it would treat you and the
We have just taken processes that only take
Literally years and we put them end-to-end and now do them in weeks to month but nobody else the industry can do
so we're very excited to
Collaborate once again. That is quite a claim of a vaccine and also it will put it in a different way make you better quicker
And we'll think of it this way if you if you get immunized with one of these vaccines
You're going to make some antibiotics to protect you
We're going to have already make those antibodies and give them to you so you don't have to go through that whole process
So to protect you and as we showed with Ebola you're giving up for them
We it was life-saving life truly life-saving
I wonder if his is Ebola
Ebola monoclonal antibodies were like a triplet cocktail like z-map was or whether
Um, it's a single what they claim monoclonal antibody. It's interesting
It was the way to go. It's very predictable. I just want to say I hope everybody succeeds here
I mean, this is bringing everybody together here is we want everybody to make a billion dollars
There's going to be success. This industry is really talented as an industry
Sometimes we want to stray, but we're going to get this done. We're going to get this done
We're going to we're going to take every contract and we're going to fulfill every contract. Thank you very much. Thanks
Oh
In only 42 days from the sequence of a virus
Our vaccine to Dr. Fauci's team at the NIH
We're now waiting for the vaccine to be green light from the idea so that the team can start those in as soon as possible
What is very interesting about our technology is that we use messenger RNA
So basically it's an information molecule that allows to go very quickly from virginity information of a virus
We're having a vaccine. So we have already have nine vaccine in the clinic
In the US in Germany and in Australia. We have five of those risk authorities
We've always departed with data from departmental defense with further
from HHS. We're having ongoing discussions
We were able to go so fast because we are working for many years with the NIH and we'll work with
a class half system on the MEIS
vaccine for the Middle East respiratory syndrome, which is so coronavirus
And so we're able to move very very fast
From a coupon calls to getting a vaccine made ready for the clinic
We're now working on the phase two material
But as soon as we get the phase one dose out of the NIH we'll be able to start the phase two right away
What is your time?
So we're hoping to get the
The phase one stuff very soon now
We're just waiting for a green light
The product is at the NIH
And then we should be a few months to get the human data
That will allow us to pick a therapeutic dose to start the phase two right away
So you're talking over the next few months. I think you don't have a vaccine
Yeah, if we have a vaccine
You'll have a vaccine to go into tests
And how long would that take
The phase two will take a few months before they're going to phase four
So you're talking within a year like i've been telling you
A year to many is talking about two months
I think fauci says a year to two years there at some point
Which is kind of on the timeline that mark was suggesting in the original
It's also what what paul cotrell was saying like an 18 month
Uh an 18 month horizon or something like that
The phase two will take a few months before they're going to phase four
All right, so you're talking within a year like i've been telling you
A year to many is talking about two months
In a couple of months
I mean, I like the sound of a couple of months better
But when you say june phase one initiation right in june not a completed vaccine
Look at his face look at fauci's face
He's
He's hard at hard time not laughing
Look at him. Oh my gosh. What is happening here?
Is
Look at him
What do you say to that lenny
I sense the cost of this
Because
Vaccines have to be tested because there's precedent for vaccines to actually make diseases worse
And you really don't want to make it you want to rush and treat a million people and find out you make him
900,000 worse to good idea. So yeah, so that's why I think why
The cautious I don't speak and it's good for him because then he has more time to roll out his monoclonal anybody
So good for him to come to the rescue of fauci and give him praise for being so careful
So we need to prove that you know, I think that with our technology by knowing that we have neutralizing
Antibodies that would give we know that this approach work for although we know that it worked for mergers and animals
We have a greater degree of confidence
And it's and if this would work
Okay
Thank you for having a
We're not a vaccine company we're a therapeutic company focused on antivirals
Gilead science as I know is worth a lot of people around the table here
Let me first take the opportunity to thank you for the effort to the administration the secretary on the
hiv elimination program
With HIV incredible
10 years, but now we're into nine years because it could have been started earlier and somebody else didn't start it early
But we started it right away
And now I'm now saying I started off saying 10 years now. I'm down to nine years. You think by the end of nine years
HIV is where
Can you imagine we'll be eliminated
Prevent it now
Is he kind of taking
He's kind of getting excited about the idea that he feels somewhat responsible for having accepted this idea as being a good thing and going at it
and I find that
An easy way that's that potentially as I understand him as a man
How donald trump could easily be bamboozled i'm i'm not i'm pretty sure he's not a biologist
I have no matter how smart his brother was at mit or whatever it is
I'm pretty sure he's not a biologist. I'm pretty sure that it takes a lot of time and study before you can get to the stage where you're
sophisticated enough to really understand this level of bamboozlement this level of
Illusion of consensus a lot of these people are unwitting participants in this illusion of consensus
They built their whole career accepting the illusion of consensus about hib the necessary
Then the need to treat these people and how to treat them and the accepted ways of treating them and writing the grant applications
Or writing the grant proposals to those grant calls has gotten them to accept those mysteries as solved
And the bad guys is who they are
And it's viruses and so he doesn't in 2002. I didn't all right in march
2020 on the second of march. I didn't know any better either
Remember back 10 years ago horrible
That was and a little beyond the 10 years and now
To think about what you've done what what's happened. So daniel
Let's talk about the same antiviral experience. Gilean has a decade to have to apply to coronavirus
So we have a medicine called remdesivir
Which is like a decade long development. So it's weird. Why would domain?
Identify remdesivir
If gilean already is gilead gonna say that the reason why we think it'll work for coronavirus is because the domain server identified it
I don't think so
Or the domain program identified it. I don't think so. So where is this?
It was used for Ebola was used for Zika was used for all these things. Why?
I think mark has done a few videos about this trying to understand what in the world is so special about remdesivir
The that's an antiviral used to treat coronaviruses the same viruses that
The same family of SARS and MERS and we're hoping that has effect now against the covid-19
So we know in vitro that it has very high effect
So you have a medicine that's already involved with the coronaviruses
And now you have to see it specifically for this
When name you can know that tomorrow. Okay. Well, we have now the critical thing is to do clinical trials
And we're in the process. We have two clinical trials going on in china that were started several weeks ago
There are 400 patient trials each
They're getting close to halfway enrolled or any response yet
Well, we don't know because they're double blind randomized trials
We have to wait till the conclusion the trial we expect to get that information in April
Then we've been working with tony in the group at NIH to have another protocol
And na id that will also be protocol that we'll use in china outside china here in the United
States to test for the virus and we have two other clinical trials that we're going to initiate next week anything here
Anything that yes. Yeah, well the naad trial already had its first patient in the brass gun
And i'm thinking tony we're working on your washington washington washington
You go to washington state where is he washington they're mentioning the shihumish county mountain
So the intention is to begin
I think it's a great idea
The trial is really ready to go
And mark says that the china trial was already stalling at this time and so this guy's a little bit BSing
I don't know if I can verify that but I trust mark
We're going to specifically the nursing home with that and how brick
Yes and the community of course
The health care workers and that family members when you when will that take place?
Well, literally I think I would go so far
You know, I would go so far as to say just to step out a minute to the chat and say
That you should really go to youtube and look at some of the early campaign speeches for governor
Or rather that governor of california
Ronald reagan did as he was running for president
one of the things you're going to be disturbed by
Is the level of language used and its delivery is going to make you feel like you're a little dumb
Because essentially back then when he ran for office
The average adult was smarter than they treat us now and the language they chose to speak to adults was smarter than it is
Now it's more sophisticated and the vocabulary was deeper
And you will see talks faster. He says things and people laugh in the audience. It's a real different kind of speech
Than what we see now with somebody as atrocious as joe biden or even somebody that a lot of people like like donald trump
It's just not the same level of information exchange
It's not the same level of idea pontification. It's not the same level of of exchange at all
intellectually
And so ronald reagan was killed
If you talk to or listen to what nancy reagan says
My take on ronald reagan is that he tried to do the right thing and people took advantage of that
And they put him in a position where he thought he could do the right thing
And at some point he realized that the tax system in america was not fair
And they killed it
And that's basically the story as i understand it and that's very different than what's happening with donald trump right now
So if donald trump's an actor
Very different kind of actor than ronald reagan was and i do think you owe it to yourself
And the history of america to go back and double check
What's available about ronald reagan and what's available about his assassination?
And maybe reconsider the fact of equating these two
Just as actors because i do think that ronald reagan
A rose in a time when people were used by other people and didn't only know didn't always know how they were being used
And it was a much more precarious kind of
meddling that it's now being done which is almost ultimate
Which is almost omnipotent because they can read social media control social media because the algorithms are different for everyone because what we see is different
And we can't really tell how far our message is going
It's a very different world in which we are being controlled a very different set of tools
That is being used to control us than what was being used back then when ronald reagan was president i assure you i assure you
Tony's involved it'll be tomorrow morning
We worked on the protocols together obviously yeah i know i'm sorry i did say assassinated when he was attempted to be assassinated at that stage though
They neutralized him right i mean
He wasn't it wasn't ever the same again. He didn't i mean and we kind of
I do really think that this had something to do with what he was doing behind the scenes with regard to tax and and the dollar and
We're working hand in glove with many people around the table to make sure that whether
So what would you know if it works i mean you already have this medicine well i do think we'll know in the April time
And
April that's pretty good. That's when uh
Tony fauci announced it was in april that remdesivir was running if you're able to say do you have any negative kickaxe kickouts like you told
utility analyses or vsmb reviews
In the trial in china
Probably take a look at some of that data in march so far
That would be only stop though for thank you
You really have to wait at the end of the trial to see up
So we're moving as fast as we can and i think everybody around the table moving
And on top of that, of course, we have to anticipate says there were significantly investing in a manufacturing facility and capacity
We've been working closely with the administration to make sure we already built a facility
To manufacture we have facilities that were recurposed into the coronavirus. This would be tremendous news if that works
Yes, it would be true because you're there
You have the plant you have everything ready
Trial and severe patient and more moderate patient. It's in remdesivir like a pretty complicated thing to manufacture
Like all kinds of special and that rick bright was actually working to get a bunch of that stuff ready right away and oh gosh
It's just crazy
Epidemiology is what went where and when is the best place? It's very exciting get it done. Yeah, we're on it
Don't disappoint us Daniel you understand that
Great company really great company. Thank you. Dr. Perhaps you'd like to say a few words. Yeah, thank you
Mr. Vice President
It's really an honor to be here with you. I'm the FDA guy
The efforts that are ongoing
You know that we're working with you very closely now with many of you and it's been a great relationship
We're very interested. This is the message I want to say and we're very interested in facilitating the development of therapeutics diagnostics vaccines
not for the benefit of the american people and
This is the first time we've heard the word diagnostic
Which I find very intriguing because the fda meeting that we watched on february 3rd
We have a call. We just watched it a couple days ago
That meeting one month before this meeting was exclusively
exclusively focused on diagnostics and diagnostic
evaluation in the context of Ebola and diagnostics as being the most important thing
According to in cutel. I mean it was pretty an extraordinary thing
And then the rest of that seminar was just about getting an EU a diagnostic into full market use
And how we could streamline that and make sure more of these diagnostics were successful in becoming fully approved medical devices
It's a very interesting thing to know
That a month before this that was the focus now today
All but one person when they said vaccines and therapeutics always said it in that order
Only one guy
The antibody guy didn't say it in that order and he did say it the first time he said it, but the second time he said
therapeutics and vaccines
It's an extraordinary thing to see now and again remember this is us looking backwards in time and having things line up in a very peculiar way
A very peculiar level of certainty about what would happen in the this is 2020
Don't let that math fool you 2020 2021 2021 2022 2023 2024 five years ago
We of course want them to be safe and efficacious but really look forward to working with you on this
Thank you
Mr. President, Mr. Vice President
I'm chief scientist for Pfizer. Yeah
We are very pleased to be here
And for us it been always important when our major public health threats to come together
Cross the industry with biotechs and federal agencies
We were highly appreciative of the initiative that you're taking this powerful way to have all of us around this table
Pfizer as you know is a proud american company
We have 170 years of experience
Originally founded in brooklyn and head port in new york and we have brought many vaccines
Computics of smaller large types for patients suffering from many different diseases including
infectious disease now specifically for the
COVID-19 the corona virus
You realize how expensive this meeting is how much time is at the table here?
A lot of these guys probably get six or eight hundred dollars an hour in the
identified compound
medicine that we have
That we think due to your activity against very related
viruses have
good high probability to be active against
COVID-19 and in march we are confirming that
Assumption with laboratories that have access to do this
hazardous work of
Using the live virus to confirm activity
That would allow us to work closely with
Dr. Horn here at fda and identify the past the past
To bring it to patients that should happen if things were well this year
And as soon as possible I can hear your encouragement to all of us
um
I want to also to say that
Pfizer has
30 three zero or dm manufacturing sites in the u.s
More than 30 thousand americans involved in making or discovery medicine
And we're willing to share our experience our
capabilities as a team here
To make sure that the public in america gets the best solutions
Your competitors, but in this case it's different
Uh, this is something we want to get done very quickly
Do you expect to be sharing your own capabilities with Pfizer and everybody else?
Good. I think the core tension that have come from you is correct makes all of us feel that we should be one team here
I agree
We would appreciate that and at the closing remarks
We've had a tremendous partnership with nih and nid
In many areas being pioneering to bring medicine or advances forward with cdc dialogues and with fda here
So for us to look forward to extend this relationship to make sure that
americans
Can as fast as possible given your
Encouragement to us and with um have different options to protect them
Protection is by vaccines to
Deal with those that are exposed we need treatments and those that are ill when treatment
so
It's not just one solution. I think from this team we should offer
multiple approaches to cutic and vaccines
Does it have a few different variants of what we're talking about?
Do you see that happening where maybe they're different either therapeutics or vaccines for both?
They don't have anything use
Pfizer doesn't have anything
Maybe in different areas. You are right on the frontier of science
Uh, it is about combination and even looking at our colleagues here at dilliard
We have learned that if you have two different the mechanism put them together as treatment the likelihood of
Churing or very long-dasking responses is higher and we actually work on complementary mechanism
I love the complimentary
Yeah, that's fantastic. Thank you very much. It's really very exciting. Please
Mr. Vice President
My name is joseph ken
I run a company called a no-view pharmaceutical set of pennsylvania. We're a proud american biotech company
With uh rnd and manufacturing california as well
Uh, no-view is the leader in coronavirus vaccine development in the world
Uh, we have a phase two product for relating
MERS uh coronavirus vaccine
in phase two stage
Uh when the new outbreak occurred, we applied our very innovative 21st century
Uh platform called dna medicines platform
to covid 19
Uh by getting the just the dna sequence of the virus
We're able to fully construct our vaccine within three hours
and we've been working on pre-clinical
and
preparation work
Uh with the help of the fda and acceleration and really working very well together
Uh our plan is to start the us base clinical trials for covid 19 vaccine in april of this year
followed by shortly thereafter
Uh trial in china in south korea. There are a lot more infections in those areas
Um, we can give you an area
No, we can't
You take a look at seattle again
Oh wow, we could give you an area
There are more infections in south korea and in china so that they need to work over there
And he could give us an area if you take a look at seattle again, we could give you an area
We could give you an area
So if you don't mind, uh, we've been collaborating with
Us agencies like dark up nih
We collaborated with octobergsta in hru vaccines and many many years ago
um
with existing
Resources and capacity by end of this year
Uh, you know, we have to deliver about 1 million doses
But to scale by by end of this year, but to scale beyond that
We need your help mr. president
We need to work with you and your agency varga and others
Uh to help us scale or a vaccine
So there you see the problem, right? He's asking for help. They can't make more than a million doses
That might be the reason why they miss the bid
Because the other people at the table already said they could do more than that
They already said they had much more manufacturing capacity than that. So it's an interesting
Admission more or less. Um, it's cool
to manufacture in america to protect american public
Uh, also to lead the world in vaccine development from america. Thank you very much
You'll have our help
Thank you, please
Mr. president, mr. vice president. Um, i'm post office law hall sign vice chairman and chute scientific office officer for johnson and johnson
I'm in uh in
Vaccine research in 30 years. It's simple to ask for hiv
At the moment working within the vaccine platform, which has been deployed for is being deployed in hiv
We did uh in the times of zika as well as now in ebola
We are working with throwny on a face to win a face tree study with the hiv with the same platform
Um with varda. We have extensively collaborated on uh on ebola a vaccine at the moment
We are vaccinating thousand people a day in the walnut and in d orc showing the safety of uh
And the same vaccine platform. We are now deploying for for corona
Um, since the availability of the information on the virus mid january
We have been uh working day and i from getting to a vaccine
The first versions of that are being tested in animals at the moment with positive results
And in parallel the company has decided to start up scaling now
um, time to resolve uh will depend on
on uh
On gmp manufacturing safety frequently the safety have to work closely together with i have beyond that
uh before the year and uh
Hopefully in november we have the first clinical data starting and early next year the results of that
And at the same time we're looking for significant quality of vaccines being uh being already produced in that time frame
Uh, but you've come to anything else than at the moment starting parallel
Um, the biological clinical work and parallel doing the upscaling
Uh, and let's see where where we end as fast as possible
Do you have different concepts and methods then you you know fizer and johnson and johnson all great companies
Are you having different some seem to be the face the face here look at that
Are you having different some seem to be faster than others and others
They they do seem to be different
Concepts the difference in the concept is that we are using a cold virus and a dino vector
Which which that is a place where you can place a piece of corona a ball average
I mean so we trick the body with another virus and generate the in generate the antibody
And that's different from the others difference on the others
Difference is also
It's been used for many years now. It has been proven for many years that you could do it like that
And we also have a validated upscaling but this guy's accent is Dutch
Platform which can produce millions of doses in a premature time frame
And that's a parallel process where we develop the cell line
Which if we follow what we could do with a baller
We could produce like up to hundreds of millions of vaccines in a in a small let's say reasonably small facility for manufacturing
So can you have it ready for next season any of you? I mean would you say
The next season
Seems to be very seasonal we have to be we have to be very careful here if you're vaccinating
Make sure it works works and safe doesn't doesn't hurt. Yeah, that's right. I agree. Thank you very much. Thank you. Great company
She's cdc and mark says that that lady is basically the inspiration for the movie contagion
Novavax
Kids we have our flu vaccine. We all know we need a better flu weight. So an obio was testing
Novio was testing a rsv vaccine on pregnant women at the start of the pandemic
Did you hear that?
For 4600 pregnant women to protect the infants from our species. Wow
You see we have our flu vaccine. We all know we need a better flu vaccine
And we have one in phase three trials. We're going to unblind in four weeks
Exciting type of company, but we actually our company is focused on emerging infectious diseases
We had two coronavirus vaccines. We made one for SARS
We made one for MERS. We tested MERS and all the way through animal challenge trials
I'm showed a hundred percent protection
We have an Ebola vaccine that what the NIH showed in four different non-human studies
So many companies have made an Ebola vaccine. It's really very extraordinary
I think Robert Malone tells the story about brokering the purchase of
an Ebola vaccine by Merck
But now when you listen to this table, it seems like every company had an Ebola vaccine everybody
Every company worked with barda to make any Ebola vaccine. So that's a lot of money
That's a lot of money that gets spent behind the scenes that we weren't paying any attention to before the pandemic started
But when you look backwards in time and you look backwards and see how these things align how these motivations align how these bureaucracy
bureaucratic motivations align you start to see that it's really hard
In 2020 for to take them seriously when they said there was a pandemic right now
It's very hard to take it seriously
Given the fact that they're all chomping at the bit for there to be one
And the given the fact that they are so
United in the consensus that these responses are necessary that these
Billions if not trillions of dollars need to be spent. They just can't wait
For them to be spent
extremely low doses
And we made a pandemic flu vaccine for age seven and nine and others and we've twice now taken from the gene sequence
To the first of human studies
And we're once again doing the same thing since the gene sequence was
Identify it. I think it published on January 10th. We've taken their same the competent nanoparticle platform
And have been in animal studies for a couple weeks
We expect data this week on one of us on corona and on this. I'm sorry on corona. Yes
and
We're going to be non-human primates this week with the coronavirus
vaccine candidate so so what do you think in terms of timing? What do you think timing is
What you hear around the table is as we can get into humans in the made you in timetable
And
Also, but we'll have primate data. So those are a lot of speeds I think pretty much
We'll make it very easy for you, but those are and we have to be very safe, but those are on our own speeds
And we're trying to identify
Scale so that we can get to the billion million scale both where we have a vaccine antigen
Also
So he's talking about the fact
He's talking about the fact that novavax is going to use a protein produced by some other recombinant method
I think they might have used silk worms or something like that or a mothworm. I don't know
Um, it doesn't matter. They were going to make the spike protein
Using recombinant methods. So then the injection was going to be a protein plus an adjuvant
So maybe they can use the the specialized protein. What was it called?
it was called a
pandemic adjuvant technology that's glaxo smith Klein on the other end of this on the other end of
Are the other side of donald trump has available?
Maybe they can combine that with their protein
Instead of waiting 30 days for
10 days or 20 whatever the numbers
But there are a lot of things that we can do with the FDA and frankly, we need money. We're a biotech company
I'm not we need money
We need money
Let me just say the gig ome biological also needs money if you'd like to subscribe, please go to gig ome biological.com. Thank you very much
And we have worked with the other companies in this particular
instance we have not yet, okay
Dr. Stephen Han by the way is the new head of the FDA for those of you that don't know and he's
One of the most respected people in the country and this is the man we wanted
And this is the man we got you didn't know you were going to be hit with this your first month
You're here for a couple of months and this was pretty big ever. Would you like to say something? Oh, Debbie
Well, thank you. It's a privilege to be here. Thank you. Mr. President. Mr. Vice President
I think what was exciting to hear around the table as you have a potential for a bridge
A bridge between the therapeutics and monoclonals while we work on the vaccines
And I think that's the most promising piece for the american people to know that there's technology that can be used as an immediate bridge
And then as we work on the vaccines, I think
Making sure that we've tested all of the antivirals that you have in your collection
Against this particular virus do I see fifties across the board many of you have
Antibiral medication that I think just to assure the american people that we have tried
Using our innovators to actually screen all the current drugs for potential activity against this virus would be key
But I think this is very promising with this linkage that you put together in this room between monoclonal antibodies
There are a few extra vaccines
It is very exciting and the speed is very exciting too
Anybody else have anything to say?
Tony was something on the screening. So we set up already a
Industry construction the duchy everyone is not able to submit by a take off pharmaceuticals to submit to a screening
Which is set up for everybody supported by barda and support them by
Yeah, so barda in what was supporting a universal screening thing
By a take off pharmaceuticals to submit to a screening
Which is set up for everybody supported by barda and support them by
You move rapidly by barda in europe. I think he said interesting
Media would you like to ask any questions of any of the geniuses or
Markets up today. Our country is very strong economically as you know
this was a
Something that came out of china that was a big surprise to the world it happened just a few weeks ago and
I'm sure the fed is looking at it. I hope the fed is looking at they shouldn't be but a lot of the central banks are looking at
interest stimulus and one thing I want to add we keep talking about for america but really we're looking at for a cure for the
All-world because this is a world cure not just united states
We want to take care of the united states, but whatever we do is going to annuit to the benefit of the world
So we want to do that and save in the world
Some of your companies are so large you can you can handle that but you work together
Thereby making it even better. So we appreciate that we would love to have you work together on this get it done and get it done safely and quickly
But I think I had a word very strong shape very strong shape
Actually very strong shape and you know I have to tell you I came into the room not expected to hear quite what I've heard
But a lot of work has already been done. We've been encouraging them for the last few weeks. I mean literally from
First day when we shut it down when we shut down the border so to speak
We shut it down to china something we didn't like to do but we made a good decision
but we also call some of the companies around the tables and get going just in case get going and
We're very proud of the work that some of them have done some are very advanced already on this particular coronavirus
So we appreciate it. It's tremendous news. And I think the speed is a lot greater than a lot of people would have
Well, I don't know I think you're so rich. I know the company is very well. Some of them are so rich
I think they can actually loan money to the federal government
They don't need body they need time. I think what they need more than anything else
Well, I don't know. I think you're so rich. I know the company is very well. Some of them are so rich
I think they can actually loan money. Do you remember him saying that? Wow, that's pretty
That's a good one. I'll give him prey. I'll give him a point for that
They don't need body they need time. I think what they need more than anything else to any you might tell me but
I think what you need is
FDA and
Tony have to help you get through the process as quickly as possible
The bureaucratic stuff and and we don't have bureaucrats here. We have people that really know how to get it between Tony and Bob and
Steven
They'll get you folks through very very quickly
Is that a good speaking of us getting on the Fed?
Well, I think we should have a meeting already
I don't know what that noise is. It's going to be talking about various things tomorrow
Uh, but we'll see what happens, but I think it's on the recording. I guess already. I don't know what takes them so long
I'll see what happens. Let's see what happens tomorrow
You're buying what
Listen as the president has said we've said from the out get to the choppa
And we need to be prepared
We need we prepare for the worst case. We hope for the best case
Part of preparing is normal preparedness activities by individuals. He's turning red dot go
To get normal air for the seer of the united states and we need to be prepared
We need we prepare for the worst case. We hope for the best case
Tony loves this because it's like he orchestrated everybody's doing exactly what he wanted them to do when it came to a pandemic response
Part of preparing is normal preparedness activities by individuals go to cdc dot go
To get information about just sound preparedness at home like you would have for a hurricane or for the blue season
That's the same type of activity now. So having some food
Having some hand sanitizer, but frankly soap and water a good a good soap and water hand washing
Um for an appropriate amount of time if you look at cdc dot go for 20 seconds is as effective as that kind of sanitizer
20 seconds people should not be panicked. They shouldn't be I know they may feel that they may feel a sense of unease
They feel the uncertainty. We're trying to reveal all information we have
Um, but there are steps people can take like that just good every day preparedness
Nothing different today than they would I would have advised six months ago
Yes, we are to certain countries where they have more of a breakout
We are you know what those countries are not to say but
We are doing that and we've already done it as you know with three countries
In addition to China, so we will be doing
I don't think you'll be that because I really think we're in you know extremely weak shape
We're prepared for anything that we could always do that in a later date if we need it
But I don't think we need that at this stage, you know interestingly
We would discuss a unique question. It's weird because I would say that already the emergency they help and human services emergency has already been declared
Correct me if I'm wrong
but
If I'm wrong that I want to know when but I do think that the emergency has already been declared
I think he's talking about declaring a national emergency
Which is a bit different than an hhs hhs declared emergency, which is very separate from that and I think that's that's
Okay, maybe for fema then yet, right?
Should I get asked a lot by people is
On average you lose from
26,000 to 70,000 or so and even in some cases more from the flu
We lose we have deaths of that per year worldwide. It's hundreds of thousands of deaths from the common flu
And they ask you know, what's the difference and how does this
I differ and I guess there are things that are similar and things that are different every one of them is different
It might not be a bad question to ask because I get that all the time
So so far we have six here
You have
You know the country is very I mean china obviously got hit the hardest
I noticed that south gurus hit very hard. Italy is being
six
Did he just say we have six here?
He couldn't have just said that that's not possible
Be a bad question to ask because I get that all the time
So so far we have six here
You have
You know the country is very I mean china obviously got hit the hardest
I noticed that south gurus hit very hard
So we had six cases in the united states and we got all the richest ceos in america pharma
And got them into the room at the same time
Can you imagine that that that's extraordinary these people are definitely ready to go
And they think about this
Really is being hit very hard
But I would like to maybe not because I am oftentimes this we
Average I suspect tony I think you said from around 26 27 000 up to 60 or 70 000 deaths per year
That's a lot of deaths and
Here we're talking about a much smaller range now
Hopefully it stays remember that all flew deaths up until this point are more or less a modeled
Number of deaths that are assumed in order that the cdc can justify the rollout of the flu vaccine every year
The flu vaccine is not funded unless the cdc declares that enough people are dying of flu for it to be funded
And I do think that this has been fact checked by more than one of my viewers
But it's definitely true in my understanding that the cdc can't just fund the flu vaccine
It actually has to jump through a formal hoop of declaring a flu epidemic every year
And that I could epidemic is defined by a modeling scheme
Which you know tries to look at all cause mortality and respiratory disease in hospitals and attributes some of it to p&i
That's what we're dealing with here. There's a disconnect. I'm not even sure that donald trump is at the stage where he understands it yet
Is at a much smaller range and again we're prepared for anything
Uh, could I ask you uh or any of you if you'd like to answer that question
Where would the public what would the public think when you have so many
And that's taken routinely and I was shocked to hear this, you know three four weeks ago. I said, well, how many people die
A year from the flu and in this country, I think last year was 36 or 37,000 people and i'm saying wow
Nobody knew that information worldwide. You just multiply it out times in the world, right?
Uh, so what is the different state?
I think there are people around the table that i don't think are more medically qualified, but I mean
Clearly what we're represent around the table is the ability to prevent
uh, you know
You know an endemic of sorts and the ability to treat
An endemic of sorts to prevent an endemic of sorts. I knew it was going to come up
I knew zero covid was going to come up because
Zero covid is something that Brett Weinstein was still
Vociferously advocating for in june of 2021 that it was still an achievable goal
That's why I play that video in the beginning of these episodes because you really need to understand that certain concepts were already
Pre-laid they were already found in that cnn video
We watched a couple weeks ago where the lady that that that reporter garret says that well
The worst case scenario with one of these things is that a virus isn't stopped and then it goes endemic
And so he's already trying to coin a term here
He's already trying to suggest that a pandemic could become an endemic
Has if an endemic is bad an endemic is something that was always there. It's in the background
It's endemic
Like automobiles are endemic to western civilization
I want to hear him say it again
You know an endemic of sorts and the ability to treat those two and endemic of sorts
You may have to up our research on the flu
Yeah, we actually have taken on the challenge that you just mentioned so we are investing in what could be
New technology into completely shaped outcome of flu when you need to think about
How you can move fast from the first cases to have the right type of vaccine and how you can be able to manufacturing very fast
Because I think you are right on top point that the numbers in flu are so large and we haven't come
That to that level yet, but I think it's also the fear that there is no
Experience yet with these virus and we don't have the feeling of
Going to CVS and get the flu vaccine or use some of the early developed drugs
But I think you summarized it very well. It's our
challenge is we should take on
Year by year and advance and protect lives
Tony they have to maybe hey, don't eat
Because when you lose that many people, yeah
Tony is that we have a major effort to develop what we call a universal flu vaccine
Man
That would cover all the different strains of the universal flu vaccine not to be confused with the universal coronavax
Coronavirus vaccine both of which we are going to need very soon and are just around the corner
And then around the next corner is going to be when we use retroviruses to cure child
The diseases then around the next corner is where there is no more disease at all on the world than that we live forever, right?
That's where you don't have to keep worrying about it mutating from year to year
Yeah, so that's a major effort that we have. Thanks Max nonsense. Have a good day
And then you know I hear numbers that are not great
60% 70% coverage
success
And yet I hear numbers that are better than that with respect to corona. You think you could really knock it out
And that's because you know, oh
Do you hear what he's saying?
Please tell me you just heard what he said. This is beautiful
He's talking about previous conversations that he's had with these people before this meeting
Where they talk about how we get flu vaccines to go sometimes 70% coverage
And that they thought they could get this one a lot farther than that
Shall we listen to it again
Shall we listen to it again because that was really tasty for my ears
It was that was like choice cuts right there. Here it comes. I'm sure I heard it right
And then you know I hear numbers that are not great
60% 70% coverage
success
And yet I hear numbers that are better than that with respect to corona. You think you could really knock it out
And that's because you know specifically what it is. I suspect so that's impressive
What do you think?
Surprises surprises there are always surprises in a Scooby-Doo episode
That's the best part about Scooby-Doo is that it's very surprising what happens in a Scooby-Doo episode
Surprises
Man this pen is disappointing me
Because I shouldn't hold it in my hand for a few seconds uncapped and then have it completely dry
It's super annoying because it's a nice pen, but it doesn't work like I needed to work
um only certain pens
Certain fountain pens are able to cope with
Occasional writing and it's very impressive the ones that stay wet and the ones that don't in my collection
Um
Some of them that work very well when you write all the time just don't work very well when you're taking notes
And I get very frustrated with things that don't start writing when I want to start writing
Why am I talking about that? I don't know this guy gets referred to as Lenny a few times
I wonder if they have been friends already for longer than this meeting. Maybe he's the one he feels most comfortable with
Around the table. Um, it's interesting that he refers him to it as Lenny
Maybe a hundred million people are just checking his vaccinate
We have nobody in this country vaccinated for coronavirus
So that goes but the same vaccine could not work you take a solid flu vaccine
You don't think that would have an impact or much of an impact on corona
Probably none
So
Yeah
He said totally naked to this virus, that's an interesting way of putting it everybody's vulnerable remember
That was part of the key narrative of the novel virus
It's a novel virus for which everyone is vulnerable that
Was a an assured agree. They are all in consensus about that
Obviously we're all vulnerable because it's a new virus none of us have seen it before
This was essential part of the worst case scenario an essential part of the worst case scenario being enforced here
and also in the darkest corners of the internet by by
Low level and high level players basically
All people that were encouraged with comfort and fame and fortune and and promotion and likes
In order to fuel the idea that a worst case scenario could be a billion people dead
It could be
Endemicity of a deadly virus that right now at this table people think could be 30 percent lethal
Yeah
Who are in an industry where optimism is an essential part of the toolkit
But realism is that you know 95 percent of what we all work on doesn't go too far
So we that's why it's so important have so many different
Approaches you can't but it seems to me just based on what you said and also what the other folks said from great companies companies
I know very well from just seeing you know what they do and I find it very interesting
I have for a long time
It would seem to me that
You already know pretty much where you're going and where you're headed and what the answer is going to be
This is interesting. That's an interesting observation. I didn't notice it
Let me go back to that cut and see if I agree with you
It's supposed to be recorded from a live meeting, but I do not know that it's recorded from a live meeting. It's not a it's on a on a non
Popular youtube channel, right? It looks like it was uploaded four years ago
But that's an interesting question
Because it doesn't really I mean
How would they cut like this in a live meeting? It's good. I I mean, I know they can cut in a live meeting like this
But they must have had a camera guy walking around then it's interesting. I like that question. Thank you for asking it
But realism is that you know 95 percent of what we all work on doesn't go too far
So we that's why it's so important have so many different
Can't but it seems to me just based on what you said and also what the other folks said from great companies companies
I know very well from just seeing you know what they do and I find it very interesting. I have for a long time
it would seem to me that
You already know pretty much where you're going and where you're headed and what the answer is going to be
It would seem that steep doesn't seem
You seem to know what the answer is to this you have to get it done
Yeah, they know what the answer is they're going to make a spike protein oriented vaccine
And that is a very extraordinary choice that all of them have agreed on from the very very beginning
That's an extraordinary choice that no one really seems to want to highlight
Instead wants to focus on the gain of function portion and the gain of function of a lab leak and the
spreading novel pathogen for which we are all vulnerable
And not one person here except for Donald Trump seems to notice that you guys pretty much already know what the answer is it seems
You just have to finish
You guys have all this in manufacture and not one of you has chosen a different protein
Not one they've all agreed that the spike protein is the obvious target
Even the Novavax people that are going to make the protein itself. Why would you make a toxin?
In in huge quantities
Unless
There was just a consensus
Was that too optimistic or statement
I think some of the new technologies that have come
That we heard today with about the m or nay in dna where you use competing youth right tools and technologies
They give us an opportunity to move fast and that's why some of the companies that have been working on early diseases
Can quickly
Change priorities and that means huge public health threat
But I think we should take on as a team to do something with the seasonal flu and actually
I think Robert Redfield that has been one of your key priorities and we've certainly picked up on that
I know where there would be a great thing if you could do that just aside from this meeting
If you could do that, that would be a great thing. Does anybody else have anything to say please
Well, I want to just thank you all very much for being here and it sounds
I'm very it's a very optimistic meeting. I didn't realize you were that far advanced and you'll
Get together if you have to you that far advanced
See he's not aware of the fact that all these people got phone calls and they went immediately full board
The dutch guy said they've already gone into full upscale of the jnj. Should they know they're going to get bought doses bought
You know with tony and bob and you'll deal with uh, hey tony and
Get it done. We need it. We want it fast. Okay
I don't know what the time will be. I don't think they know what the time will be
I've heard
Very quick numbers a matter of months that i've heard pretty much a year would be an outside number
So I think that's not a bad that's not a bad range
But if you're talking about three to four months in a couple of cases and a year and other cases
Would you say doctor would that be about?
I mean, how certain can you be that you need something when you only have six cases and you've closed the borders and you think that zero
COVID is possible?
Don't you understand even if they had zero COVID even if all these tests were negative they were planning to go forward with
Vaccination because the virus is circulating in china. It's inevitable that it's going to get here
endemic and
Endemic he said the word endemic
Like it was a verb or a or a or a something that could happen an endemic could happen
We are really in trouble ladies and gentlemen if we look at the history and we see this we should not discount it
It feels very much to me like there is evidence of malevolence here that this is a preconceived notion of what we were going to do next
And donald trump is just kind of a guy who's trying to pretend that
All this illusion of consensus doesn't have an effect on him that he's he's not impressed by it
But of course he is how can anyone not be impressed by this level of consensus
Well, you have the greatest companies in the world sitting around the table
I mean johnson and johnson advisor and all of the companies gilead
You have all of these great companies and that's what they're saying. So I think that
I didn't make sure you get the president information that a vaccine that you make and start testing
The year is not a vaccine that's deployable. So he's asking the question
When is it going to be deployable and that is going to be at the earliest a year to a year and a half
No matter how fast you go a year to a year and a half, but they got it done in nine months
They were injecting people in the uk already in december and feb and and november of 2020
They were already doing the trials like ladies and gentlemen
What tony fauci saying here is actually kind of what mark kulek says is
Likely the original plan was for it to be a couple years. This was supposed to be longer
And
I don't think they were able to sustain the level of fear and conformity that they thought they were going to be able to sustain
And that's why the role of the dissident movement has become so prominent where it was never meant to be
who was meant to be a sideshow
And it's become half the story
And that's not the way they wanted it to be as he said with the flu vaccine
They were pretty sure they could get this all the way
That everybody would take it
And that would have required more drama and more psychological
Torture and more censorship than they could muster
apparently
I am very optimistic when I watch this because I do think it confirms a lot of things that
Mark and I have been talking about over the last few years and more importantly it confirms the fact
that so many people that are members of this bureaucracy and that are members of the
Of the elite that feed from this bureaucracy
That there was no stopping them once offered this this possibility there was no stopping them
No stopping fauci no stopping cdc and no stopping these companies
From making sure that this illusion never went away
I would go so far as to say that I could imagine at this table that there's enough money at this table to pay
people
To go on the internet and worry
I would say that there's enough money at this table to pay people that used to work for them
That still work for them to go on the internet and make
the worst case scenario real
To make sure that this train did not stop
To make sure that no one was able to get off before the doors closed
And that we were off to the races in march already of 2020
How would you do that? Well, you would put a bunch of people on the internet
fake doctors claiming to be
investment
Gurus turned health nuts
You would put all kinds of people out there people with three degrees claiming to know what was going on
Nurses
Claiming to know what's going on doctors claiming to know what's going on
In order to make sure that the worst case scenario was not only believable but assumed to be true
Because you've got a fool the bureaucracy too
It's hard to really tell where it all came from it's hard to really say that it would be all the department of defense when you see all of this
Motivation
Potential
Billions of dollars are available
If the worst case scenario is believed long enough billions if not trillions of dollars are available if the worst case scenario remains gray enough
And so there are
Billions of reasons why people would have been paid
To make sure that the worst case scenario was always believable was always on people's mind
And that people instead went to the possibility of a laboratory leak as a result of of hubris
And by trying to solve that mystery
They accepted this
I
Might be more exciting
Ambassador burks I think laid out a really nice framework as we think about managing expectations ambassador burks
Which is be thinking antiviral therapeutics
Transitioning to monoclonal antibodies and eventually to vaccines as we think about the continuum of research and development here
Well, you know, I think Tony. I think that's interesting because they don't eat treatment in a certain way
Especially when you have people that are
Looking for treatment. They've already got they're beyond the vaccine stage
That would be very exciting and it always goes faster than vaccine because you're dealing with someone who's already sick
That's the safety issues are going to be much much different
And you will know you result almost immediately whereas with vaccines
So then what would be your timing for treatment spectacular therapeutics commonly known
For us
And
Said you're going to find out very quickly suddenly a mystery whether these things work or not
We're pretty confident that among our parts of the monoclonal antibody
Leni is re-generant
You think that that approach has a very high probability in the near term of delivery and test itself so that so treatment
I mean just the media so the treatment element of it goes faster than the vaccine element of it
Which in my opinion in this case would be better
But I mean the remdesivir are medicine. It's in phase three trials right now. These trials are conducted very fast
I mean we're talking about 30 day endpoints
So you recruit them
You know in 30 days, you know once you recruit whether it works or not
You know in 30 days whether it works or not
That's amazing. Thankfully so far the drugs seem to be very safe
But we have to determine is this level of
Clinical effectiveness and now as I said, we'll know
As a treatment somebody is sick, right?
They have the problem
It has been used when do you think it could be used?
Well, if if the trial that that daniel was talking about proves efficacy
Which you likely might know in a few months whether it's effective effective enough
If you know by june
That it's effective that you just scale up and manufacture it and you're good to go
How good is that?
That's good even by your statement
Let me give you an example for instance with with the regenoron product with the bowl
So tony fauci and his team
In the world health organization ran a historic forearm clinical trial
in the war zone and eastern convo
And two of the products one of them developed by nid
developed by regenoron
Proved so effective that the ethical board said stop on the other two
Treating and when I went to the Congo
I got to see people that even before
FBA approval are being treated still in the extension of this clinical trial and being cured of Ebola now walking out
Where they would have had a death sentence before which is that's what that's what we would try to do
That's what we would try to do. He just got back from the Congo
And uh, that's dedication. He was that was not an easy trip one of the best laboratories in the world probably
I mean, it wasn't easy very
President, I'll be at an age tomorrow
Look forward to working with all of you. And I want to I want to commend each and every one of you for
Responding to the president's call for action
This is all hands-on deck
And the news out of this meeting that you've already formed a consortium
We know we have the greatest pharmaceutical industry in the world in the united states, mr
President now we know they will be working together to create therapeutics and ultimately a new vaccine to deal
coronavirus and thank you
And anybody delays you please call me
I know just called Tony and Bob
All right
13,000
They must have heard about this meeting
Who's talking outside?
Now this is a very optimistic way. Look, I know optimism and not optimism and pestle if the worst pessimism and I will tell you
Uh, the whole thing with therapeutics to me is very exciting and obviously vaccine
But therapeutics is very exciting especially when you're so far
As you know, um, it's time for basketball
Um, and so I'm gonna head over to the hoops
and uh spend an hour with my sons and then
Maybe I'll be back on this afternoon or this evening. Otherwise for sure tomorrow
Um, I'm getting my act together very slowly, but surely get my head together slowly, but surely
um and and developing
Um
Strategy on how to bring more to the table over the coming coming weeks. Um, so that I have more to
Um, ask you to support. I understand that I haven't
I haven't been putting out as much
Content has I've been promising. Um, but that
That's just the way life is right now. Um, and until we have enough where we can totally devote
All of my free time to this working time to this, um, it's just going to have to be a
A crapshoot like this, but I'm trying my best and I will continue to try to hone it
So that we can be on, um, at predictable times times that are on the schedule
Um, I'm not sure if it's going to stay one o'clock it might move before lunch
It might move right to 1212 or 1111. I don't know
Um, but I do know that that we're going to try and and make
More and more effort as we go forward. So I just want to thank everybody that's supporting the stream now
Um, of course
I love it if more people would support but I'm going to give you reasons in the next couple weeks to
To click that button. So if you're still on the fence and still enjoying this content then please share it
and uh
And and and stay tuned because uh, we're going to keep working. Thanks very much for joining me. I'll see you again soon
You